tarot notes

Is Tarot magic?

That depends on what you mean by magic. If you mean "an instance of something impossible happening," then no, because impossible things don't happen. If they happened, they wouldn't be impossible. If you mean, "something that science can't explain," then I'm not sure because I'm not a scientist, but probably not. I doubt science HAS explained Tarot, but that's science's problem, not Tarot's.

If, on the other hand, by magic you mean nothing more than "something that is astonishing," then I would have to answer that, yes, Tarot is magic, although the magic is nothing more than that of human thought itself, which never ceases to astonish me even though it happens every day.

What is the purpose of Tarot?

Tarot is an pictorial interpretive framework for thinking. The cards depict scenes that are rich in associative and allegorical meaning. Looking at them and thinking about them, you are reminded of thoughts and situations from your own life, held up before you like a helpful mirror. It can be a useful tool for analyzing difficult decisions or clarifying ambiguous feelings.

Couldn't the cards you drew just as easily have been any others?

Maybe. Then again, maybe not. Before you draw a card, it could be any card; after you draw it, it is only the card you drew, and nothing can change that. All I will say is, I've been reading Tarot for a long time, and the cards have usually been apt to my situation, in a way that really seems to mildly defy the laws of probability. Certain cards I've gotten a lot; certain other cards I've almost never gotten. At least it seems that way. I might be wrong. Either way, it doesn't make any difference.

How does a Tarot reading work?

First, the client states his or her intention. The intention may be any difficult situation or decision about which the client desires clarity. It should be specific; a vague intention will yield a vague reading.

In my readings, I use a technique called the Star Spread, in which seven cards are revealed one after another. The first, placed at the bottom, is the root, which may be thought of as a preliminary response to the client's intention. The next two cards, representing feelings and thoughts, respectively, are placed above the root card, to the right and the left. Next is the heart card, which represents the deeper significance of the root card - the "heart of the matter" - followed by two more cards above it, which represent unconscious and conscious desires. Finally I reveal the top card, which represents the way forward.

Throughout the reading, as I explain the meanings of the cards, the client is encouraged to connect these meanings with his or her own thoughts and experiences. The reading as a whole should be thought of as a collaborative exercise in associative thinking.

Can Tarot predict the future?

I do not presume to do so. My goal in my readings is only to clarify the present. I have observed, however, that the significance of the top card of the spread, the "way forward," often does not come to light until significantly after the reading. Indeed, clients who were astonished at the aptness of the first six cards sometimes come away confused and mildly disappointed at the strangeness of the seventh. To these clients I say - just wait. Because of this observation, I am tempted to refer to the seventh card as "the card that tells the future" - but understand that that is only a figure of speech.